Inside Rust: Write "crates.io Policy Update RFC" blog post (#1143)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/inside-rust/2023-09-19-crates-io-usage-policy-rfc.md

---
layout: post
title: crates.io Policy Update RFC
author: Tobias Bieniek
team: the crates.io team <https://www.rust-lang.org/governance/teams/crates-io>
---

> Around the end of July the crates.io team opened an [RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3463) to update the current crates.io usage policies. This has caused a lot of controversial discussion and most of the suggested improvements have since been integrated into the proposal.

Reviewer: The one thing that might be missing here is a brief explanation of the motivation for the policy update in the first place: the tl;dr below summarises the controversial parts of the changes, but not _why_ they're being proposed in the first place.

Here's an idea for framing (I also tinkered with the "controversial" part just a touch — readers can decide for themselves how they feel, I think):

```suggestion
Around the end of July the crates.io team opened an [RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3463) to update the current crates.io usage policies. This update addresses operational concerns that have arisen since the last significant update in 2017, particularly related to name squatting and spam. This has caused considerable discussion, and most of the suggested improvements have since been integrated into the proposal.
```

> Around the end of July the crates.io team opened an [RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3463) to update the current crates.io usage policies. This update addresses operational concerns that have arisen since the last significant update in 2017, particularly related to name squatting and spam. This has caused considerable discussion, and most of the suggested improvements have since been integrated into the proposal.

Reviewer 2: I feel a little unclear about what these sentences are referring to, exactly. I think this would help:

```suggestion
Around the end of July the crates.io team opened an [RFC](https://github.com/rust-lang/rfcs/pull/3463) to update the current crates.io usage policies. This policy update addresses operational concerns of the crates.io community service that have arisen since the last significant policy update in 2017, particularly related to name squatting and spam. The RFC has caused considerable discussion, and most of the suggested improvements have since been integrated into the proposal.
```

Author: sounds good to me, thanks!

At the last team meeting the crates.io team decided to move the RFC forward and start the **final comment period** process.

> We have been made aware by a couple of community members though that the RFC might not have been visible enough in the Rust community. We hope that this blog post changes that.

Reviewer 3: I think it should be on main blog, not inside rust, if you're looking specifically to talk to community. But not a strong opinion and probably doesn't matter that much.

Reviewer 4: I also think it should be the main blog.

Author: > I think it should be on main blog

after discussion in the crates.io team meeting we decided to move it to the main blog

We invite you all to review the RFC and let us know if there are still any major concerns with these proposed policies.

Here is a quick **TL;DR**:

> - The current policies are quite vague on a couple of topic, the new policies are more explicit.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- The current policies are quite vague on a couple of topics. The new policies are more explicit.
```

Author: oops, thank you! :)

> - Name squatting is allowed, but only to a certain degree and if you have a good reason for it.

Reviewer: Nitpicking the wording a bit here, admittedly, but I feel like this captures the intent a little better:

```suggestion
- Reserving names is allowed, but only for a limited period of time while genuine development occurs.
```

Reviewer: Sure, let's go with that. :+1:

(I'll admit `rg` wasn't really on my mind here — I think it's a legit case, but I also think it's such a rare mixture of factors that I don't particularly want to hone in on that case too much when we're talking generally.)

> - The crates.io team will try to contact crate owners before taking any actions.

Reviewer: This could imply that the crates.io team won't _always_ try to contact crate owners. How about:

```suggestion
- The crates.io team will always attempt to contact crate owners before taking any actions.
```
